library(dplyr)
library(stringr)
library(ggplot2)
library(shiny)
library(plotly)


ui <- navbarPage(
  title = "The Study of NYC School",
  
  intro_panel <- tabPanel(
    title = "Introduction",
    
    titlePanel("Analysis of NYC High School Education Inequity"),
    
    img(src = "educational-inequity.jpg",
        width= "50%"),
    p("Picture of an unbalance equilibirium, where the privileged white groups are on top and the minority groups at the bottom."),
    p(a(href = "https://sundial.csun.edu/92480/opinions/its-time-to-end-the-cycle-of-educational-inequity/#", 
          "Photo credit: Kristine Delicana, 2015")),
    
    br(),
    
    
    h3(strong("Problem Statement")),
    
    p("Everyone has the right to education, as stated in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights by the United
    Nations. However, not everyone is given an equal access to this basic right since the gap in education is growing bigger 
    and bigger especially between the group of rich and poor. Students from low-income households, people of color, 
    and those who live in rural regions are disproportionately impacted by this gap and they are denied opportunities 
    that should be open to everyone. It is important to identify this problem and take necessary action so that we could 
    help underprivileged students to earn an equal opportunity in education. We believe our story will inspire people
    to confront the systemic barrier that keep millions of students from reaching their full potential.
    Also, we hope to inspire people to work towards the goal where everyone has the chance to achieve."),
    
    br(), 
    h3(strong("Project Description")),
    
    p("As education inequity remains a major problem today, we made an analysis on New York City's high school
    datasets to better understand this problem. We've analysed the success metrics of each school based on 
    the economic status and income level in different New York City's boroughs. For example, we looked at how the low/high income 
    level affects the SAT scores and college enrollment rate in each school district. Basically, the values of how much 
    public assistance a school’s students receives determine the income level. Then, we examined the association
    between SAT scores and the economic status in different school districts. In this case, the economic status is determined by
    the population receiving public assistance. Lastly, we checked if the learning resources are evenly distributed across the boroughs and observed
    how they affect a student's achievement in general. To do this, we plotted a graph to see the overall performance of each high 
    school and compare their resources."),
    
    br(),
    h3(strong("Background research")),
    
    p("Based on the readings below, we know New York City has had a long history of racial inequity in education. Usually,
    schools with high concentrations of low-income and minority students receive fewer instructional resources than others. 
    Also, high standardized test scores are often closely correlated with race, wealth and parental education. Next, we're
    going to examine on the association amongs these factors in different story settings based on these assumptions."),
    
    p(a(href = "https://www.cssny.org/news/entry/unequal-education-in-new-yorks-public-school-system1", 
        "Unequal Education in New York’s Public School System")),
    p(a(href = "https://www.brookings.edu/articles/unequal-opportunity-race-and-education/", 
        "Unequal Opportunity: Race and Education")),
    p(a(href = "https://www.lawyerscommittee.org/educational-equity-in-college-admissions-can-only-be-achieved-if-universities-abandon-racially-biased-sat-act-tests/", 
        "Educational Equity in College Admissions Can Only Be Achieved if Universities Abandon Racially Biased SAT/ACT Tests")),
    
    br()
    
  ),
  
  conclusion_panel <- tabPanel(
    title = "Summary",
    titlePanel("Summary about Education Inequity in Datasets"),
    
    p("We find out that most of the high schools' success metrics are impacted by their income level 
    and learning environment, which makes us believe that there is an inequity in education."),
    
    br(),
    
    h3(strong("Justification")),  
    p("Even though we found a special case where the low income groups actually did better than the high income groups in some tests,
    we decided not to take it into consideration when making the conclusion because it's a rare case that shouldn't be taken into consideration. 
    As suggested by the visuals before, we can tell that the educational resources are not distributed evenly across the high schools. Generally, 
    students with a low economic status are less likely to achieve in education. This is because the school districts that have a 
    large proportion of students with low income backgrounds receive less funding and support outside of government funds. They typically 
    have less programs to support their students and less experienced teachers for teachings. Thus, the learning environment becomes less supportive to 
    the students due to the lack of educational resources. In contrast, the privileged groups of people (people with high 
    economic status) will have easier access to any academic resources they need and they are given more support. For example, 
    high schools that are located in wealthy neighborhoods provide their students with advanced coursework and technology as well as high 
    quality educators who are experienced in teaching. Hence, they have a higher chance of getting high SAT scores and gaining admission to
    a top university. We believe these unfair treatments contribute to the education inequity in NYC. "),
    
    br(),
    
    h3(strong("Takeaway Message")),
    
    p("Education inequity is real and it is brought to our attention by this study. Hence, addressing education inequity should be our 
    next action: we need to prioritize equitable funding and inclusive policies in schools to ensure every 
    student has an equal opportunity to succeed. By investing in educational equity, we can build a better society, 
    where everyone has the chance to achieve regardless of their background or color."),
    
    br(),
    
    h4(strong("About")),
    
    p("This study is contributed by Suk Jin Chung and Robin Sarah Chartand with reference to the following websites: "),
    
    p(a(href = "https://infohub.nyced.org/reports/school-quality/school-quality-reports-and-resources/school-quality-report-citywide-data", 
        "NYC High School Quality Rankings")),
    p(a(href = "https://data.cityofnewyork.us/Education/School-District-Breakdowns/g3vh-kbnw/explore", 
        "NYC School District Breakdown"))
    
  )


)


server <- function(input, output) {
  
}

# Run the application 
shinyApp(ui = ui, server = server)
